---
tags:
  - LinearAlgebra
  - MATLAB
aliases: 
type: lecture-note
created: 2024-03-13
reviewed: false
notices: false
summary: true
---
### **Subject**:: [[Linear Algebra(MATLAB)]]
### **Week**:: 2

**ì´ì „ ê°•ì˜ ë…¸íŠ¸**: [[2. Vector Part1]]

### ê°•ì˜ìë£Œ: 
[[Lecture_03_Vectors_part2.pdf]]

# ê°•ì˜í•„ê¸° (Lecture Notes)
<br>

- **[[Vector Set]]**:
    
    - **Definition**: A collection of vectors.
    - **Notation**: Indicated as ğ‘º or ğ‘½, represented in capital italics letters.
    - **Characteristics**: Can be finite, infinite, or empty.
- **[[Linear Weighted Combination]]**:
    
    - **Definition**: Mixing information from multiple variables, with some variables contributing more than others.
    - **Mathematical Representation**: Scalar-vector multiplication and addition.
- **[[Linear Independence]]**:
    
    - **Linearly Dependent**: At least one vector can be expressed as a linear combination of others.
    - **Linearly Independent**: No vector can be expressed as a linear combination of others.
    - **Mathematical Definition**: Involves finding if a set of vectors produces a zero vector.
- **[[Subspace]] and [[Span]]**:
    
    - **Subspace**: Formed by infinitely linear combinations of vectors within a vector set.
    - **Span**: Combining all possible linear weighted combinations.
    - **Relationship**: Span is the verb; subspace is the noun.
- **[[Basis]]**:
    
    - **Definition**: A set of vectors that are linearly independent and span a subspace.
    - **Common Basis**: Cartesian basis, comprising mutually orthogonal and unit length vectors.
    - **Applications**: Dimension reduction, feature extraction, principal components analysis, etc.
    
## ê³µì§€ì‚¬í•­
<br>



## ìˆ˜ì—… ë‚´ìš©


# ë‹¤ìŒ í•  ì¼(After Actions)
## ì‘ì—… (Tasks)
**Exercises**:

1. Rewrite code for linear weighted combination using arrays and loops.
2. Create a scalar and vector list for linear weighted combination and execute the code.

## ì •ë¦¬ (Summary)
[[Matlab]]
- **[[Summary]] of Key Points**:
    
    - **Vector Set**: Can contain finite or infinite vectors.
    - **Linear Weighted Combination**: Multiply scalars and add vectors in a set.
    - **Linear Dependent vs Independent**: Dependent if a vector can be expressed as a combination of others, independent if not.
    - **Subspace**: All possible linear combinations of a vector set.
    - **Basis**: A set of vectors that spans a subspace and is linearly independent.

